time to check out our ride of the week
the Moto Guzzi Daytona 1000 at the heart
of this jewel is an all-new air-cooled
four valves per cylinder fuel-injected
v-twin sporting innovative belt driven
cams located within each cylinder head
the underslung engine used as a stress
member is sandwiched by those dr. John
inspired cast aluminum swing arm pivots
while the Daytona's backbone frame is
comprised of rectangular chromoly steel
out back you'll find a Conny shock
fitted cantilever style to embraced
chromoly swing arm recently we invited
to caddy owner Katherine Perrin along
with contributing editor Larry Tate to
sample the Daytona on the same streets
that inspired this bikes name it's a big
change for more taguchi of course
they've always used this v-twin
configuration and they've kept that so
for the the purists and so on who are
used to the old type of bike it's it's
still there but it's very different with
the cam in the head four valves per
cylinder they've gone to fuel injection
it feels again very different ribs a lot
more quickly than boots you have in the
past the flywheel feels a bit lighter
and certainly it grabs a lot faster with
the four valves up top and the injection
the fuel injection makes a big
difference to the way to the engine runs
it just you know have to worry about it
stalling or stopping or it just goes
but I was also pleasantly surprised by
how easily the motor starts up and runs
an idle is it's just like a little
tractor you know the older once again
they were kind of hard to start
sometimes they weren't that keen on
idling and and just trucking around town
but the fuel injection on the computer
work on this thing I've done a big
change there I found this one it was a
little more a little more gutsy more
torquey there's no no hesitating there's
I found was I don't know if it's a
tuning thing with the Ducati or whether
it's just the way it is but I found a
little bit hesitant rolling on the
throttle whereas with the goosey it's
it's just solid it never hesitates never
no Hicks and coughs it just rolls right
on nice and smooth and very powerful and
you really feel it you know you got
something powerful underneath you there
that's for sure
one of the the downfalls for the bike
for myself I guess for somebody who had
really strong hands it wouldn't be that
bad but I did get a little tired not I
don't know if that's just it's probably
a combination of not having ridden all
winter and you know it's just first time
on the bike kind of thing for quite some
time but it was tiring after a while
especially with the you know the
stopping and turning and riding in
traffic it would it was a little heavy
a little little heavier than the Ducati
but and of course much much heavier than
most of the Japanese bikes I imagine
well this thing is very new for for good
see in a lot of ways no the engine is a
radically new work as we talked earlier
but also the really big thing that the
dr. joy Whitmer is done for the factory
is to redesign their do rear end when he
was racing these things in the States
he developed a suspension system that
basically removed the shaft drive effect
from from driving this thing now they
they still it rocks a bit right when you
really Revit that the thing tends to
pull over on like yeah it's kind of fun
but it used to be also that you know
they would the back end would rise and
fall quite a bit as he got the power on
it off but what they've done back in
here now this is huge casting here
attaches to the the main spline down
tube comes through here this big casting
fits on the end here the swing arm is
pivoted through this casting all this
bracing up in here makes it even more
rigid and then there's two back on the
inside this torque tube carries all the
forces from the the changing driveshaft
system back up into the frame directly
doesn't go through the suspension
anymore so that the drive shaft out in
here is articulated at both ends and the
bottom line is that you really don't
notice that the shaft drive bike it's
not like driving a BMW or an older Gucci
at all it just really is not an effect
it's remarkable piece of work
the clutch is just a little too tiring
for doing a lot of on the highway it
wouldn't be a problem but in city or in
town it would be would be a little tough
I think and for myself and I found that
the the warning lights it just I don't
know if it's just my height or or what
it is but I find that this rubber edging
here it obliterates the warning lights
perfectly just from where I'm sitting I
have to duck I have to duck a little bit
to see the warning lights but and I
another thing I noticed was I certainly
wouldn't give it up for this but my
niece sort of knocking into the cylinder
heads but I guess it's you know kind of
depends on where you sit on the feet but
I found that the most comfortable spot
on the seat was right up close to the
tank and that was the best position for
me yet my knees were just brushing on
the cylinder heads which which wasn't I
mean it wasn't a problem it was just a
matter of shifting shifting yourself
just you know an inch or so back and and
that was enough I suspect that a lot of
this switch gear is is Nippon Denso
stuff from Japan it has that look and it
feels very much like a lot of the other
Japanese switch gear does this stuff I
can't give it any higher compliment than
to say oh it works like a Japanese bike
rather than an Italian bike and you know
no insult to anybody who likes Italian
bikes but switch gears never been one of
those strong points and this stuff is a
real step forward take out on a nice
sunny day kind of bike just I think not
only for the for the fact it's maybe a
little bit more difficult seating
position but just because it would be
it'd be such a shame to get it dirty
it's so pretty
yeah is that you definitely want to keep
it looking like it does right now yeah
just to recap our impressions of the
Daytona on the downside Larry found the
reach to the clip-ons extreme while
Catherine's knees kept banging the
cylinder heads Catherine also found the
clutch to be a tad stiff and everyone
complained about the spring-loaded side
stand on the upside we loved the
fuel-injected engine for its smooth
power delivery and throaty roar the
Daytona was surprisingly nimble through
the curves and everyone loved this
Ferrari red sports machine for its fit
and finish now that's Italian